---
layout: article
title: About `browser-history`
permalink: /projects/about-browser-history
aside:
  toc: true
sidebar:
  nav: projects
---

`browser-history`  is a simple, zero-dependencies, developer-friendly python package to retrieve (almost) any browser's history on (almost) any platform.

```python
from browser_history.browsers import Firefox

f = Firefox()

his = f.history()
```

If you want to jump right in to make contributions, have a look at the [issues](https://github.com/pesos/browser-history/issues) page on GitHub.

Do note that you do not need to understand *everything* to start contributing – the issues labeled `first-timers-only` will help those of you get familiar with Git and the open source workflow without having to worry about understanding the codebase in detail.

Remember the `#browser-history-help` channel is your friend, and we will address any question related to the project, Rust in general, or even the contribution process.

## Learning path for browser-history

(To Be Added)
As of now the best way to learn what you need for being able to contribute to `browser-history` directly is to refer to the [docs](https://browser-history.readthedocs.io/en/latest/contributing.html). It has a bunch of details about the internal workings, the API and contributing instructions. Of course, other than that, there is the `#browser-history-help` channel on Slack.

## Making your first contribution

You can contribute to `browser-history` by:

- Actually using `browser-history` in your projects, and reporting any issues you face, or features you want on the GitHub repo.
- Seeing the issues currently present and coming up with a fix/contribution
    - The README file will help you on building the application from source
    - Refer to the contribution guidelines given in `CONTRIBUTING.md`
- Just talking about it – spread the word about our community and what we are doing with your friends and on social media! More exposure helps us.
