resources/index.md, before:

---
title: Resources
layout: article
---

## Beginner's Guide to Open Source
- [The Official PES Open Source Handbook](/resources/handbook)
- [GitHub's Open Source Guide](https://opensource.guide)
- [Digital Ocean's Introduction to Open Source](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorial_series/an-introduction-to-open-source)
- [Find Projects you can Contribute to](https://up-for-grabs.net/#/)
- [Find More Projects you can Contribute to](https://www.codetriage.com/)
- [Find Issues you can fix here](http://issuehub.io/)


## Learn GitHub
- [Perform the 'Hello World' of GitHub](https://guides.github.com/activities/hello-world/)
- [First Contributions](https://github.com/firstcontributions/first-contributions)
- [Learn how to write a proper Git Commit Message](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/)
- [Learn the language of GitHub READMEs, Markdown](https://www.markdowntutorial.com/)


## Additional Open Source Resources
- [You can't talk about Open Source without having Hacktoberfest](https://hacktoberfest.digitalocean.com/)
- [Google Summer of Code](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/)
- [A Blog dedicated to Free and Open Source Software](https://itsfoss.com/)
- [Get Involved in Open Source Today](https://www.hanselman.com/blog/GetInvolvedInOpenSourceTodayHowToContributeAPatchToAGitHubHostedOpenSourceProjectLikeCode52.aspx)


## General Programming
- [Discover what Python can add to your project](http://www.automatetheboringstuff.com/)
- [Delve into the world of Web Scraping with Python](https://www.learndatasci.com/tutorials/ultimate-guide-web-scraping-w-python-requests-and-beautifulsoup/)
- [The Learn Programming Subreddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/learnprogramming/)
- [Learn stuff through Games](https://www.twilio.com/quest/missions)
- [Learn the making of a computer using Open Source Hardware Design](http://www.nand2tetris.org/)


## Popular Open Source Projects

  ### *GNU/Linux*
  - [Try any Linux Distro on the cloud, without any installation!](https://distrotest.net/)
  - [Simplified documentation for beginners to the Linux  CLI](https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr)
  - [Deepen your Linux Knowledge](https://linuxjourney.com/)
  - [Do you want to make your own Linux Distro?](http://www.linuxfromscratch.org/)
  - [The Linux Subreddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/linux/)

  ### *Mozilla Foundation (Firefox / Rust / Web Assembly)*
  - [Why Firefox is awesome](https://itsfoss.com/why-firefox/?utm_source=newsletter&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=linux_and_open_source_stories_this_week&utm_term=2018-11-14)
  - [What can I do for Mozilla](https://www.whatcanidoformozilla.org/)
  - [Contribute to Mozilla open source software](https://codetribute.mozilla.org/)
 
  ### *Blender*
  - [The Blender Subreddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/blender/)
  
  ### *Arduino*
  - [Learn Arduino, the Open Source Hardware Board](https://www.instructables.com/id/Intro-to-Arduino/)

-- more coming soon --

Commit message:

Updated Resources (#71)
Updates the general programming and beginner's guide to roadmap section.

resources/index.md, after:

---
title: Resources
layout: article
---

## Beginner's Guide to Open Source
- [The Official PES Open Source Handbook](/resources/handbook)
- [GitHub's Open Source Guide](https://opensource.guide)
- [Digital Ocean's Introduction to Open Source](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorial_series/an-introduction-to-open-source)
- [Find Projects you can Contribute to](https://up-for-grabs.net/#/)
- [Find More Projects you can Contribute to](https://www.codetriage.com/)
- [Find Issues you can fix here](http://issuehub.io/)
- [Guide to a novice in the world of programming](https://dev.to/alexmercedcoder/ultimate-basic-coder-reference-bash-git-vscode-nodejs-more-3poa)


## Learn GitHub
- [Perform the 'Hello World' of GitHub](https://guides.github.com/activities/hello-world/)
- [First Contributions](https://github.com/firstcontributions/first-contributions)
- [Learn how to write a proper Git Commit Message](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/)
- [Learn the language of GitHub READMEs, Markdown](https://www.markdowntutorial.com/)


## Additional Open Source Resources
- [You can't talk about Open Source without having Hacktoberfest](https://hacktoberfest.digitalocean.com/)
- [Google Summer of Code](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/)
- [A Blog dedicated to Free and Open Source Software](https://itsfoss.com/)
- [Get Involved in Open Source Today](https://www.hanselman.com/blog/GetInvolvedInOpenSourceTodayHowToContributeAPatchToAGitHubHostedOpenSourceProjectLikeCode52.aspx)


## General Programming
- [Discover what Python can add to your project](http://www.automatetheboringstuff.com/)
- [Delve into the world of Web Scraping with Python](https://www.learndatasci.com/tutorials/ultimate-guide-web-scraping-w-python-requests-and-beautifulsoup/)
- [The Learn Programming Subreddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/learnprogramming/)
- [Learn stuff through Games](https://www.twilio.com/quest/missions)
- [Learn the making of a computer using Open Source Hardware Design](http://www.nand2tetris.org/)
- [Best 25 programming books of all time](https://dev.to/daolf/the-25-most-recommended-programming-books-of-all-time-5fel)
- [A very detailed roadmap to become a full-stack developer](https://dev.to/ender_minyard/full-stack-developer-s-roadmap-2k12)


## Popular Open Source Projects

  ### *GNU/Linux*
  - [Try any Linux Distro on the cloud, without any installation!](https://distrotest.net/)
  - [Simplified documentation for beginners to the Linux  CLI](https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr)
  - [Deepen your Linux Knowledge](https://linuxjourney.com/)
  - [Do you want to make your own Linux Distro?](http://www.linuxfromscratch.org/)
  - [The Linux Subreddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/linux/)

  ### *Mozilla Foundation (Firefox / Rust / Web Assembly)*
  - [Why Firefox is awesome](https://itsfoss.com/why-firefox/?utm_source=newsletter&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=linux_and_open_source_stories_this_week&utm_term=2018-11-14)
  - [What can I do for Mozilla](https://www.whatcanidoformozilla.org/)
  - [Contribute to Mozilla open source software](https://codetribute.mozilla.org/)
 
  ### *Blender*
  - [The Blender Subreddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/blender/)
  
  ### *Arduino*
  - [Learn Arduino, the Open Source Hardware Board](https://www.instructables.com/id/Intro-to-Arduino/)

-- more coming soon --
