---
title: "PES Open Source is Recruiting!"
tags: pesos recruitments
permalink: /recruitments
author: Atharva Raykar
show_author_profile: true
---

PES Open Source is looking to recruit a new leadership team from the batch of 2023 (and over). The plan is that we will be recruiting new members this semester, and getting them familiarized with all the processes and having them take increasingly important decisions in leading the direction of PESOS. So by the time the current core team exits, the hand off would be smooth.

We will be holding a selection process for the leadership roles that will be detailed below. **The first phase of this selection process, is to fill the form linked at the bottom of this post** and answer the questions based on the role(s) you want to apply for.

Of course, this is not the only way to get involved with PES Open Source in a significant way. Your contributions to our [projects](https://pesos.github.io/projects), and engaging with the community means a lot!

The current openings are:

- Lead, PES Open Source
- Lead of Outreach and Publicity
- Lead of Operations
- Social Media and Marketing Lead

**The deadline to send in your applications is Saturday, November 9ᵗʰ, 11:59 PM.**

# Role Descriptions

## Lead

As the Lead of PES Open Source, you will be determining the future direction of the community, and help it reach its ultimate goal of reviving the student developer scene in universities.
Your work involves:

-   Creating a vision for how you will support a thriving Open Source community
-   Working with other people to get them on-board with your vision and realizing it
-   Creating systems and processes to ensure the community's activities are well-supported and running smoothly
-   Ensuring that all initiatives taken are executed with the highest possible standard
-   Constantly evaluating how well you have achieved your objectives, and iterating and improving processes to better improve PES Open Source
-   Innovating and pushing the boundaries of what a student community can achieve, with the right amount of out-of-the-box thinking

If some of this sounds a little abstract, that's because this role is a canvas on which you can paint your vision of a thriving student community built on the foundations of open source – it is your creativity and clarity of thought that determines what you can achieve. You will find yourself in a lot of new situations and doing varied tasks all the time. If that sounds appealling to you, you might be a good fit for the Lead!

#### Qualifying Criteria:

-   You need to have a **clear vision** about how you would manage a whole student community
-   You need to be passionate and knowledgeable about Open Source community dynamics and processes
-   You need to be an excellent, and quick decision maker
-   You need to be excellent at **communicating clearly** and collaborating with people
-   You need to be someone who gets things done rapidly, in an organized and well-documented manner
-   A broad technical ability is a nice bonus too

## Lead of Outreach and Publicity

As the Lead of Outreach and Publicity, you are key to ensuring PES Open Source grows and expands to achieve its goals of reviving student developer communities at a university level.

Your task is to ruthlessly advocate and improve the standing of PES Open Source, by devising outreach programmes and getting people excited about having a place to share their knowledge freely and collaborate together.

Note that this is not the same as *marketing*,  as your responsibility goes far beyond promoting events.

You are expected to constantly seek and open up new opportunities wherever you can, and your work complements the Lead's, where your strategic outreach can help find new opportunities for the community and take it in new directions.

#### Qualifying Criteria:

-   You need to be an excellent communicator, who can convince people of the values we promote
-   You need to be extremely comfortable with reaching out and talking to a wide variety of people and forming connections
-   You need to have clear vision, backed by systems and strategies to open up new opportunities for the community
-   You need to have the ability to assemble the right people to execute and see through your operations
-   Having connections in technical and student developer circles is a nice bonus


## Lead of Operations

If the other two leadership roles are about the *what* and the *why*, the Lead of Operations is about the *how*. You need to ensure the smooth day-to-day functioning of the community's activities.

Your goal is to execute every plan and decision to the best possible standards, and ensuring that every activity stays on track.

This involves assembling and coordinating with a core that gathers all the resources needed, and efficiently makes events and activities actually come to fruition.

You need to be good at handling tricky situations during events and also ensure that a plan B exists for everything.

You have to regularly follow up and ensure that all the systems and processes of the community are being followed and there is progress being made.


#### Qualifying Criteria:

-   You need to be excellent at handling all of the above functions of course.
-   You need to have a systematic and organized work ethic
-   You need to be efficient and quick to act on decisions
-   You need to be excellent at communicating and working with a team of people
-   You need to be excellent at holding people and processes accountable


## Social Media and Marketing

As the Head of Social Media and marketing, you need to market the values of PES Open Source in creative ways. Your job is to regularly update our Social Media handles and present to the public all the various activities of PES Open Source.

We are trying to avoid a traditional approach of merely promoting posters of events, and looking for a more grassroots approach to social media, where authenticity and interactivity is key. Thus your creativity is important.

You need to ensure that our regular activities are well presented in our social media, and that there remains no ambiguity about what PES Open Source is about to those that visit our social media.


#### Qualifying Criteria:

-   You need to have a clear and great vision for our social media identity
-   You need to have excellent presentation and writing skills
-   You need to have a disciplined and regular approach to your work
-   You need to be good at understanding the community, and then identifying new opportunities to engage with people online
-   A strong bonus if you have a good understanding of visual and brand design (else you will need to find the right person to do it for you)

## Are there other purely technical roles?

Yes! But we do not do selections for other roles. The way you become a part of our PES Open Source core conversations and activities is just by engaging with us and jumping in to do awesome things within PES Open Source.

Want to become a maintainer for us? Pitch us a project!  
Want to blog for us? Submit a proposal for a post [here](https://github.com/pesos/pesos.github.io/issues/new?assignees=&labels=blog+post+proposal&template=propose-an-article.md&title=%5BBLOG+POST%5D)!  
Want to conduct a meetup to show off a niche passion? Tell us about it, and we will try to make it happen!  
Want to make a Slack bot to schedule meetups? We would love to get you on board!

## Link to apply for the above roles: → [here](https://forms.gle/8bnkqWiSTCL2K1YN7) ←
