---
layout: article
title: Making The Most Of Your Membership
permalink: /get-started/expectations
aside:
  toc: true
sidebar:
  nav: get-started
---

The quality of your time at PES Open Source is a direct function of your level of engagement and participation in our community.

Our activities rely on our thriving student network of which you will be a part of. Now that we have told you what to expect from our community, here are a few things the community expects from you:

## Conduct

All our members are expected to strongly adhere to our [Code of Conduct](/coc). We take code of conduct violations very seriously and will not tolerate any behaviour that threatens the well-being of any member of our community.

## Engagement

We want all our members to freely participate in our activities and engage with our community.

All our members *at a minimum* are expected to engage in the following ways:

- Regularly attending our meet-ups, and participating in our discussions and activities there.
- Being active and responsive on our [communication channels]().
- Voting in our yearly elections.
- Attending our workshops and talks.

If a member is unable to do the above consistently, their membership will be reconsidered.

> If you have a genuine reason to not be able to participate in the above ways, please do tell us why in advance.

Other ways we want you to participate:

- Give us ideas and suggestions about how we govern PES Open Source.
- Contributing to our [Community Blog](/blog).
- Contributing to Open Source in general.
- Asking and responding to any technical question.
